Prosecutors tried to establish Friday that Army private Bradley Manning -- charged in the largest leak of classified material in U.S. history -- missed multiple opportunities to complain about the mistreatment he's alleging he suffered in military custody.
While cross-examining Manning at a pre-trial hearing at Ft. Meade, Maryland, prosecutor Maj. Ashden Fein asserted that records of weekly visits Manning had with unit officers during nine months of detention at Quantico, Virginia, show no complaints about his treatment.
The cross-examination -- during a hearing on a defense motion to have Manning's case dismissed on grounds that his confinement has been harsh and has amounted to enough punishment -- came a day after Manning testified that he had considered suicide while in custody.
The Army intelligence analyst, arrested in June 2010, is accused of stealing thousands of classified documents while serving in Iraq.
The material was then published online by WikiLeaks.
WikiLeaks has never confirmed that Manning was the source of its information.
In Friday's hearing, Fein reviewed with Manning the forms that officers filled out after meeting with Manning during his detention at Quantico's brig, where he was held under a heightened confinement status from July 2010 to April 2011.
Officers would ask Manning questions and write down his responses.
When Fein asked about the forms Friday, Manning acknowledged that he rated treatment by his guards as "excellent" and treatment by the facility overall as "very professional."
The forms show no complaints of mistreatment, even though the officers asked Manning directly about his treatment, Fein contended.
Manning responded that he would verbally express concern about issues and that the visiting officers would talk through the concerns and indicate that they would be addressed, but they didn't record the issues.
They would write down 'no issues' (after discussing the concerns), and it didn't necessarily mean I didn't bring something up, Manning said.
The judge, Army Col. Denise Lind, also asked Manning why he didn't complain about his treatment during a January 2011 meeting with a board examining the suicidal thoughts he expressed in a form months earlier.
